---
id: "1"
aliases: []
tags: []
---

# Powerful oversized country

The king of this country has a magician under its service and uses him to check the mind of the people coming to him. This gives him a lot of safety.
This king makes the population think he possesses magic, but he does not. The magicians are usually hidden around him, in the shadows.
-> The magicians are at the service of this king because he is extremely powerful. His armies are feared in the entire world, and nobody would dare oppose him.
This king is extremely powerful and extremely charismatic. Nobody dears to oppose him. He claims to have been chosen by ancient gods
The magicians regularly elaborate "miracles", which solidifies the power of the king in the mind of the population
This country has an overpopulation problem because of the following:

- There recently were some medical advances, that drastically reduced infant mortality, and extended lifespans, but birthrates have not adjusted yet.
- This leads to a food problem, as the food production is unable to follow the population growth despite the technological advances. This creates disparity, as the food gets more expensive and the lower class is not able to buy the food they need to survive
- This then needs to create more jobs, as people are flooding the cities looking for them -> leads to massive housing shortage and infrastructure straining

The elite class then uses this valid excuse as the means for expansion. They frame conquest as a need for solving their problems, when they could be dealing with these internally. The king plays with the "chosen by the gods" idea
The elite class just does not want to deal with the problem. If they wanted, they absolutely could, as they have the resources for. But this gives them a perfect excuse for territorial expansion.

There also recently was the creation of some kind of printer, allowing for easy propaganda. The government uses this to even more convince the population that the expansion is needed, also by saying that some neighboring countries (for example the technological country) are evil, leading to a "is them or us but they're evil so might as well be them" mentality
