---
id: RE-14
aliases:
  - re-14
tags:
  - re
  - x86
  - registers
---

[[RE-TOC]]

# Flags

The topic of flags is one of the most complicated ones when talking about control flow in reverse engineering.

What is important to take away is that flags help control, check and verify the execution of a program, and are a mechanism to determine whether or not an operation was successful.

In a 32 bits architecture, a single 32 bits register contains a group of status, control, and system flags. This register is called the EFLAGS register.

The status flags are as follows :

- **CF**: Carry flag, set when a math operation on an unsigned integer generates a carry or a borrow for the MSB. This is an overflow condition for the register involved with the math operation, which means the remaining data in the register is **not the correct answer to the math operation**.
- **PF**: Parity flag, used to indicate the corruption of data as a result of a math operation. The parity flag is set if the total number of bits set to 1 is even, and cleared if odd.
- **AF**: Adjust flag, used in BCD math operations. It is set if a carry or borrow operation occurs from bit 3 of the register used for the calculation.
- **ZF**: The zero flag is set if the result of an operation is 0.
- **SF**: The sign flag is set to the MSB, which is the sign bit, indicating whether the result is positive or negative.
- **OF**: The overflow flag is used in a signed integer arithmetic operation when a value is too big or a negative value is too small to be represented in the register.

The control flags are as follows:

- **DF**: Direction flag, used to control the way strings are handled by the CPU. If set, string instructions automatically decrement memory addresses to get to the next byte of the string. If cleared, it will increment memory addresses to get to the next byte of the string.

The systems flags are used to control OS level operations, and should **NEVER** be modified by any program or application other than the OS.

- **TF**: Trap flag, set to enable single-step mode. When in this mode, the CPU performs only 1 instruction at the time, waiting for a signal to perform the next instruction. This is essential for debuggers.
- **IF**: Interrupt Enable flag, controls how the CPU responds to signals received by external sources.
- **IOPL**: I/O Privilege Level flag, indicates the input/output privilege level of the currently running task and defines access levels for the I/O address space, which must be less than or equal to the access level required to access the respective address space. If it is not less than or equal to the access level required, any attempt to access the address space will be denied.
- **NT**: Nested Task flag, controls whether the currently running task is linked to the previously executed task and is used for chaining interrupted and called tasks.
