---
id: RE-11
aliases:
  - re-11
tags:
  - re
  - x86
  - registers
---

# Segment registers

The segment registers are specifically used for referencing memory locations. There are 3 different methods of accessing system memory. We will focus on the flat memory model.

There are the following six segment registers:

1. **CS**: The code segment register stores the base address of the code section (.text section), which is used for data access.
2. **DS**: The data segment register stores the default location for variables (.data section), which is used for data access.
3. **ES**: The extra segment register is used during string operations.
4. **SS**: The stack segment register stores the base location of the stack segment and is used when implicitly using the stack pointer or when explicitly using the base pointer.
5. **FS**: Extra segment register.
6. **GS**: Extra segment register.

Each segment register is 16-bit and contains a pointer to the start of the memory specific segment.
The CS register contains a pointer to the code segment in memory (where the instruction codes are stored). The processor retrieves instruction codes from memory based on the CS register value and an offset value contained in the instruction pointer (EIP) register. No program can explicitly change this register's value, as the CPU assign its value as the memory gets allocated.

The DS, ES, FS and GS segment registers are all used to point to data segments. Each of those help the program separate data elements to ensure they do not overlap. The program loads those registers with the appropriate pointer value for the segments and then references individual memory locations using an offset.

The stack segment register (SS) is used to point to the stack segment, which contains data values passed to functions and procedures in the program.

Segment registers are part of the OS and can not be read not changed directly in almost all cases.
When working in the protected flat model (x86_32), the program receives a 4Gb address space to which any 32-bit register can potentially address any of the memory addresses (except for those defined and protected by the operating system).

Memory may be bigger than 4Gb, but a 32-bit pointer can only address 4Gb of memory space.
In that case, the OS must arrange a 4Gb region with memory to which the programs are limited to. This task is completed by the segment registers, and the OS keeps close control of this.

[[RE-12]]
