---
id: RE-20
aliases:
  - re-20
tags:
  - re
  - x86
---

[[RE-TOC]]

# Instruction Code Handling

The instruction codes stored in memory each can contain one or more bytes of information that will guide the CPU on how to execute that particular instruction.

Instruction codes are no different from data, when stored in memory. To keep track of the different segment, the CPU uses special pointers, such as the data pointer, or the instruction pointer.

The data pointer (or stack pointer), starts pointing at the bottom of the stack. When new data elements are placed onto the stack, the stack pointer moves downwards, and as data is read from memory, the stack pointer goes upwards.

The instruction pointer is used to help the CPU keep track of which instruction codes have already been executed, and what code is to be processed next.

Each and every instruction code must include an opcode that defines the basic function or task to be performed by the CPU. Opcodes are between 1 and 3 bytes in length, and uniquely define the function that they perform.

Let's examine this simple C program:

```c
int main(void) {
  return 0;
}
```

All we are doing is creating a `main` function, of type integer, taking a void parameter, and immediately returning 0;

Let's compile this program:

```bash
gcc -m32 -ggdb -o test test.c
```

We can then use the `objdump` utility to find the main function within it:

```bash
code/x86/20 on  main [!⇡] via C v14.2.1-gcc
❯ objdump -d -M intel test | grep main.: -A11
0000116d <main>:
    116d:       55                      push   ebp
    116e:       89 e5                   mov    ebp,esp
    1170:       e8 0c 00 00 00          call   1181 <__x86.get_pc_thunk.ax>
    1175:       05 7f 2e 00 00          add    eax,0x2e7f
    117a:       b8 00 00 00 00          mov    eax,0x0
    117f:       5d                      pop    ebp
    1180:       c3                      ret

00001181 <__x86.get_pc_thunk.ax>:
    1181:       8b 04 24                mov    eax,DWORD PTR [esp]
    1184:       c3                      ret

```

On the far left, we have the memory addresses. In the center, we have the opcodes. On the right, we have the corresponding assembly language, in Intel syntax.

Let's examine address 0x0000117a, which contains the op codes `b8 00 00 00 00`. We can see on the right that `b8` corresponds to the `mov` instruction. The 4 `00` bytes represent 4 bytes of zero values. Therefore, `b8 00 00 00 00` represents moving the value 0x0 into `eax`.

Note: The IA-32 platform uses what's known as little-endian notation, which means that the lower value bytes appear first in the opcode when reading left to right.

If we happened to have instead `mov eax, 0x1`, we would have the opcode `b8 01 00 00 00`.

[[RE-21]]
